there's an alphabet to art and that's
what I want to get into now and be able
to really communicate in the language of
art not only from your creative
information and ideas but also
understanding what the Masters have done
and their whole decision-making process
there is what's called an s-curve okay
now if I turn this painting upside down
so we've gone over a couple elements
we've gone over the diagonals we've gone
over the the square the center of
interest and now if you take a look at
the s-curve that's also one of the major
elements in design which we'll be
talking about do you happen to see an
s-curve in this painting
well obviously look at that you know and
now not only is are these figures
organized in this fashion but also they
are
it's the s-curve that is the major
arabesque that leads the eye around the
painting so when you come in this
painting you follow through and flow
through the s-curve and then come back
out and your eye continues to go around
it comes around here and down these
branches out of the picture plane into
the picture again with the feet coming
up here coming along the shoulder up to
the eye of the lady and back around here
coming back through here to the feet and
around and outside the picture plane and
your eye continues to travel around the
painting by design next element of
design the Tobin's v goes pop up a palm
pop up a bump up up up own theme and
variation of the same theme and artists
will use that same idea by taking an
angle and repeating it over and over and
over now if you look at the boo guru
here he's done that he takes vertical
angles and repeat
some as the trees coming through here he
has the horizon horizontal angles coming
through here but he also has this kind
of an angle that has tension and it
repeats this here it's in the trees it's
in the limbs it's in the leaves so by
repeating the diagonals repeating angles
you actually tie the painting together
and provide a a rhythm as well as a
continuity as opposed to something
that's just you know haphazardly done
what I'm sharing with you is an
intellectual connection so instead of
being reactive to the artwork and trying
to make it work you can actually be
proactive and and have more control over
your paintings as you design them take a
look at a Raphael drawing there's an
angle here like with the arm you can
feel it that's the same angle as the
face of this main character it's the
same angle as the back of his head it's
the same angle as the hand to the to the
face of the that person and back down to
the eyes here it's the same angle of his
lays and where we're going into now is
the finishing part of the painting how
to take a painting that may be put
together well design-wise color wise but
it just needs that oomph that packed
that impact that that snap to make it a
very successful painting to get people's
attention and to have that aliveness
we're going to go on to other lessons
specific about portraits and in design
of the the face and so on in future
programs
you